Virtual Machine
===============

The "*.ova" file is a draft version of a Virtual Machine (VM) built
and tested on a Windows 7 64-bit host of Oracle's VirtualBox (using
version 4.1.8: http://virtualbox.org/).  The VM contains a turn-key
BRL-CAD development environment.

The intent of the VM is to give the Google Summer of Code interns a
good starting place so they can be productive as soon as possible.
Please give it a test drive so we can improve it before they start
their work.

You will need about 6 Gb free space on your computer (after the
download) to import the VM into Oracle VirtualBox and run it.

For the draft you will have to select the type of boot and then login
manually (you should change the password upon first login). The
user name is "vuser" with a password of "Vuser!", but the final
version will have autoboot and autologin.

Configuration Notes
===================

The Firefox browser has links on the bookmarks tool bar grouped by
major dependency or category.  There are folder icons on the desktop
for common BRL-CAD source code references, and important working
sub-directories in the home directory.  Note that the "Downloads"
directory can be removed but it tends to reappear if you download
through Firefox and don't change its download defaults.

The "brlcad-svn" directory has the brlcad/trunk current as of
2012-03-10 and the "brlcad-build "directory has a configured and
tested build followed by a "make clean" command.  The
"brlcad-config.sh" script is a helper for repetitive configures and
builds and it is set to be called from inside the build directory:

 $ cd ~/brlcad-build ; ../brlcad-config.sh

The successful trunk build (debug, with pdf extra docs) is installed
in the default location (/usr/brlcad/dev-7.21.0).  The PATH and
MANPATH reflect that location, and Firefox has links to the installed
BRL-CAD documentation.

The latest CMake, Bullet Physics, and Apache FOP are installed, and
the environment variable APACHE_FOP points to the fop executable.

Editors vi, emacs, and jEdit are installed alongside the simple gedit.

The ~/.bash-aliases file has some handy aliases for getting around:

 cad='cd ~/brlcad-svn'
 cabd='cd ~/brlcad-build'
 svu='svn update'
 svc='svn ci'
 svs='svn status'

There are other aliases for safe versions of destructive commands (cp,
rm, mv) and shortcuts for commonly-used commands and options.

There is also a PERL5LIB environment variable set for the current
directory:

 PERL5LIB=.

Suggestions for change or additions are encouraged.  Send to
<brlcad-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>.
