Virtual Machine
===============

The "*.ova" file in the files directory of the BRL-CAD Sourceforge
site is a Virtual Machine (also VM or Virtual Appliance) built and
tested on a Windows 7 host of Oracle's VirtualBox (VB) 4.3.8 The VM
contains a turn-key BRL-CAD development environment. Using it requires
about 6 GB of free space.

Notes (see VB documentation on the site at <http://virtualbox.org/>):

1.  You can use various VB settings for a VM to optimize your
    experience: percent host cpu, RAM, video memory, etc.

2.  You may need to reinstall guest additions if the VM is used on a
    Linux or Mac host.

============================= IN A NUTSHELL ==========================
Step 1: Download, Install and Open VirtualBox (http://virtualbox.org/)
Step 2: Import the VM (File > Import Appliance...)
Step 3: Open the newly created VM (use the Gnome Classic desktop)

Username: brlcad
Password: Brlcad!

You should change the password upon first login. To access the VM boot
selection menu, press and hold the <F12> key after starting the VM.
======================================================================

When starting the VM you may get a message about problems with the
network adapter. If you cannot start the VM successfully, you may have
to experiment with the VM's network settings to find something that
works for your VirtualBox host's hardware.

In the event nothing works for getting access to the network, you can
choose to use no network at all. Please read the VirtualBox
documentation or ask for help from the BRL-CAD developers if you don't
find an answer quickly. You can find them on IRC (irc.freenode.net
#brlcad).

Configuration Notes
===================

The Chromium browser (applications | Internet | Chromium Web Browser)
has BRL-CAD links on the bookmarks tool bar.

The "brlcad-svn-trunk" directory has the brlcad/trunk current as of
2014-02-27 (r60001).

The "brlcad-build" directory has a configured and tested build
followed by a "make clean" command, but the configuration files are
still in place. The "README-brlcad-development.txt" file describes a
recommended configuration and build sequence for use inside the build
directory.

The successful trunk build is installed in the default location
(/usr/brlcad/dev-7.24.1). The PATH and MANPATH reflect that location,
and Chromium has links to the installed BRL-CAD documentation.

gcc/g++ version 4.7.2 is installed, as is CMake 2.8.9.

Editors vi and emacs are installed alongside the simple gedit.

Suggestions for change or additions are encouraged.  Send to
<brlcad-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>

